# CataLOGue

A [platform-agnostic](https://www.google.com/search?q=platform+agnostic) way to share your music library with others!

I've found it to be difficult as a heavy music listener to be able to share my music interests with others. People use a variety of different platforms and services to listen to music, which is probably a good thing. The issue with it though is that not all services have the same availability of accessing the music you might be looking to share or tell your friends about. Rather than telling them to use the service they've never heard about to check out that weird song that you like, I think it can be much simpler, and out in the open. You can instead have a collection of all references to the things in your music library. Be it, in an Apple Music playlist, a single on Bandcamp, or a random song uploaded to Spotify or YouTube. Instead of randomly linking to things willy-nilly, you can have everything tracked from the start, so you can just link to your virtual music library listing!

I don't want CataLOGue to be a replacement for something like iTunes or Spotify, but rather a way to find a link between all of these crazy services nowadays. I think it makes it easier to share your interests with others, when they're all in a single, decentralized place.

It's possible (likely) that links to your favorite tracks and songs will break over time. That's inevitable, there's not much to do against that unless you control the source of the music yourself (which is out of the scope as for what I want this project for). The goal is to just more easily be able to show a list and references to the significance of your favorite things in your music collection. Links breaking in this scenario is no different than if you send your friend a link to an album you like, and it breaks when they come back later to listen to it again.

The idea behind this concept started from a thought I had that digital music nowadays is less cherished because you have access to everything, and anything essentially. So, does anyone have a sort of music collection anymore? They have songs in their favorites for sure, but what about when they stop using that music service? Do they continue keeping track of those songs that they really liked? Maybe they end up just getting forgotten about, which is a real shame.

Back when record, CD, and tape collections were the go-to for your music enjoyment, you owned the music you listen to (most of the time you would buy the songs you liked). Nowadays you essentially are renting them, they aren't yours to keep into the future. That also can't implicitly be changed by this project. I'm not trying to start my own Bandcamp, we already have Bandcamp for that. I simply want to try and solve the issue of losing track of your favorite songs, just because of the cruft that has come about in the assimilation of the music industry now being part of the tech world.

I guess this could be no different than just making a website on your own, and making all of the links to the soruces where you can find your music. But, I want to have this done automatically for you, without much work. Not everyone knows how to make websites, so I don't want that to be the hindrance from them being able to keep track of their favorite music.

Initially, I'm just going to make this for myself, then I'm going to try figuring out how I can make it into a template that other people can also build from.

I think the idea of sharing your favorite music kind of stems from my other recent realization, of sharing your music writing process. I think there could be some interesting connections found with both sharing where your musical ear derives itself from/what it tends to like, and learning how your creative blender shapes that stimuli into the music that you make. It's like a way to reverse-engineer what makes your creativity click.

I also think this comes from my interest in learning about where my own favorite artists' ideas are inspired from. I'd really be interested in learning about what influenced them, and what they liked about a particular piece, and how they may have encorporated that sound into their own work. Sometimes things like the artist's website or Wikipedia page will list their band influences, but that doesn't go too far in detail. You can definitely make correlations as a listener in figuring out what parts were the most interesting to them, but I think it's also helpful to be able to hear what they liked about that piece, or which songs of theirs that they tried to encorporate that sound into.

This concept I think derived from my work in the open-source world for programming, where you can see where one idea comes from, and where that concept originally started, and where decisions went right, or wrong, things like that. You can see in the commit history for the project where there was an issue, how they tried to fix it, how that didn't work, and how they eventually overcame the issue through the iterations to follow after that.